### Politicians Are People Too

#### A word from the Women's Ministry Director

I love to study the Word of God especially in preparation for teaching, rather than having someone who has done all the hard prep work teach me. I have learned much from other Bible teachers, and am privileged to have had some of the most gifted there are. But as I personally study and meditate on the Word, the Lord helps me to see the writers of the text and the people of the text as real people in real life situations, navigating life, with all its joys and sorrows, not dissimilar to my own. They come alive. They struggle to raise families, care for aging parents, carry the burden of errant loved ones, mourn the loss of dear ones; sometimes they are wise, sometimes not; they daily face battles; they have joys and woes. I can identify with them. God has given us His Word for this reason, first, that we will meet the Savior, and then, that we will navigate life well through His counsel found on every page.

The same is true of the people of the political arena: our elected leaders and those who serve them. They are real people, navigating life while serving the people they represent. They, too, struggle to raise families, care for sick loved ones, carry the burden of errant loved ones, mourn the loss of dear ones and beloved pets. Congruently, they deal with the inconveniences of burst water pipes, Christmas trees that crash in the night, and flat tires. I can relate. And in the political arena, having someone that they can relate to and talk to confidentially, is a rare thing. Family and personal life needs to be kept out of the public eye to preserve privacy, and to prevent the media having a field day with perceived weaknesses. The ministry work of Public Servants’ Prayer is about being an oasis in a veritable desert. It’s about providing a safe person that they know cares for them, prays for them; who will come along side, listen confidentially to what’s going on in their lives, and share an encouraging Scripture with them. We want them to meet the Savior, if they haven’t already, and then navigate life through the encouragement and counsel of the Scriptures.

As you think about your elected leaders, consider using Paul’s prayer to the Colossian believers found in Colossians 1:9-14. You can minister in the self-same way through specific prayer for your leaders. Do not underestimate the value of your prayer or its effectiveness. Often we can be tempted to leave directing our voice to God in favor of directing our voice to speak out in public on some political issue or leadership character flaw. I ask you, which is the more efficacious? A voice directed to God has more influence than a voice directed anywhere else.

“For this cause we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you, and desire that ye might be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding; that ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God; strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience and long suffering with joyfulness; giving thanks unto the Father, who hath made us meet (fit) to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light; who hath delivered us from the power of darkness and translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son; in whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins…” (Colossians 1:9-14)

#### Please pray this Scripture for your leaders so they can:

-Meet the Savior

-Navigate life safely

-Be people of character and integrity.

You have the opportunity to sign up at www.publicservantsprayer.org and receive the names of three of your legislators to pray for, either per day or per week.

##### We get emails and calls from legislators across the country that say,

“Thank you for praying for me today…

-I had a flat tire and needed help

-My daughter went in for surgery

-I needed wisdom especially today”

“I exhort, therefore, that first of all, supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men, for kings and all in authority…” (1 Timothy 2:1-2)

#### Will you join us?

Written by Pam Russell (PSP Womens's Ministry Director)
