### PERCEPTION

The testimony of the believer is critical in changing the heart of leaders toward the Gospel. 1 Peter 2:17 encourages us in this, “Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation.” This clearly indicates that our behavior and testimony should be such that others see our actions and are drawn to the Lord.

Having ministered in the capitol building since 2004, I have unfortunately seen believers act in ways that aren’t Christlike. Near the beginning of our ministry, one legislator even told me that Christians could be some of the meanest-spirited people in the world, and I’ve regrettably seen emails that can attest to this fact. Here is a prime example. Several years ago, I was walking with a legislator through the Statehouse when two women came up to us and began to discuss a particular issue. They were quite passionate about this issue. They were dressed conservatively and appeared to be church ladies, but as they began to talk and get worked up about their cause, they sounded like anything but Christians. The legislator that was with me had to excuse himself to get to a meeting and that left me there to finish listening to the ladies. I was unable to get a word in edgewise as they continued with their vehement diatribe. They finally slowed down enough to ask me what legislative district I represented. I told them I was just the chaplain at the Statehouse. They were surprised and embarrassed as their language had become quite salty and derogatory the more fervent they became about their issue. I believe they realized too late that they had not been representing Christ in a way that was honoring to Him. I tell this story to remind us that as we attempt to influence those in power, it’s easy for Christians to think that we can influence in our flesh, and neglect the power of prayer. (“Not by might, nor by power, but by my Spirit, saith the Lord of hosts.” Zech 4:6) If we believe Proverbs 21:1, then our first response should be prayer. That should further inform how we communicate. Let us not allow the fear of the world’s power to shake our faith. We know the God of the universe Who’s ultimately in charge. So then, our most powerful gospel-centered influence is through prayer, to influence the power of God, to work on the hearts of powerful people.

Many civil government leaders don’t see churches as being beneficial to society as a whole. Local churches need to change this perception. As local leaders often move to higher offices, it behooves local churches to impact these local leaders with gospel-centered influence early in their public service. If followers of Christ are purposeful about the practical steps of gospel-centered influence at the local levels, leaders’ perception of our churches can shift entirely. Simply start by making prayer for leaders a priority in your church. Follow up your prayers by finding out the prayer needs of your local government officials. As you pray for them, God will give you a heart to love them. Find out how you can pray for them and minister to them. Attend a city hall meeting to pray and learn about the needs in your community. Reach out to your local city and county officials and find out how you can honor them and pray for them. Put action to your prayers - follow up, meet needs, serve unconditionally. Action should not inspire prayer. Prayer should inspire action.

This plan for gospel-centered influence has the chance to change a nation and indeed the world! It all starts with making prayer a priority in our personal and corporate prayer times. Will you join the paradigm shift from politics to prayer, practice and perception, and thus impact your city, state, nation, and world with the gifts of prayer and pastoral care?
